Tonight we take a trip across my home country of Ireland. It isn’t a very large place, in fact only about six and a half million people call the whole of the island “home”. That’s smaller than New York City. But, despite the size, Ireland is replete with storied landscapes, fantastic folklore, striking architecture, all of which have inspired poets, artists and writers to pen tales set within its boundaries. And that’s the inspiration behind tonight’s story, a journey with me across the entire island. So make yourself comfortable, close your eyes as our story begins at the Waterside Railway Station on the edge of the River Foyle in Northern Ireland.

Once there were four children whose names were Peter, Susan, Edmond and Lucy. So begins the much-loved tale crafted by Belfast-born author C.S. Lewis, called The Lion The Witch and The Wardrobe. In the iconic novel, young Lucy found herself transported to the fantasy world of Narnia, upon opening a wardrobe door. There, wild woodlands swaddled the countryside, enchanted castles rose above the sea, every valley was steeped in legend, and the entire place was filled with an air of old magic. It sounds like a destination reached only amidst the sepia pages of an age-worn children’s book. But a magic wardrobe isn’t the only way to enter this fairytale terrain. All it takes is a train in the city of Derry, a stone’s throw from landscapes that inspired the fictional land of Narnia.

Clutching our tickets, we board the blue and silver train. Here the urban center is encircled by a seventeenth-century stone wall, and history echoes between its parapets. We leave these structures behind as our train pulls away, beginning a steady journey across the countryside. It edges along the tracks, slowly at first, before finding its own rhythm and inching its way northeast. Sitting by the train window, we spread out a large paper map on the table in front of us, tracing the familiar lines and contours, having poured over them for many hours before our departure. It’s almost as though we were able to feel the landscape before we see it with our eyes.


Far to the east would be the Atlantic Ocean, and the beginning of the Causeway Coast. Over the centuries, these bluffs have been carved by the waves and the wind to form a maze of caves and hollows, inspiring names that evoke time-worn lore: The Wishing Arch, Elephant Rock and Lion’s Paw. The sweeping shoreline begins at White Rocks Beach, where the soft limestone cliffs glow as pale as their namesake. The waves have scoured these formations, which seem to point toward the ruins of a crumbling castle, known as Dunluce. For 600 years, this stone structure has stood proudly above the water on a steep windswept headland, though it looks like it’s been there much longer.


Remnants of its stone walls soar up from the green undergrowth of the sea cliffs. Arched bridges are mirrored in the sea and its swells below, and the rising ramparts can barely be distinguished from nature’s own cliffs of rocky architecture. This place offers us our first glimpse of Narnia, since many suspect the medieval citadel is the model for C.S. Lewis’s Cair Paravel, a castle of kings and queens. Lewis could easily have been describing Dunluce when he wrote: “The Castle of Cair Paravel on its hill, towered up above them.


Before them were the sands and rocks with little pools of salt water, and long miles of bluish-green waves breaking forever and ever on the beach.” But this man-made creation is no match for what’s found further along the coast, and the far older stories that accompany it: the Giant’s Causeway, created nearly 50 million years ago. It is a cluster of some forty thousand basalt columns, formed by an ancient volcano when lava seeped through fissures deep within the earth.

Each stony pillar is shaped as a hexagon, a prism with uncanny geometric form. Molten liquid was cooled by the sea, forming the structure seen today, a great mound of interlocking columns rising up from the shore like a city of rocky towers. That’s according to geologists. Ask a local, they’ll tell you the fable of Fionn Mac Cumhaill, a giant who built the causeway to meet his Scottish rival, Benandonner.

Tracing an invisible line across the contours of our map, we can see the route does indeed lead to the Isle of Staffa, off the western coast of Scotland. There, inside a place called Fingal’s Cave, similar pillars can be found. The remains, perhaps, of this prehistoric pathway. In keeping with legend, weathered rocks have been given tantalizing names that appear on our map: The Giant’s Boot, a slab of stone so smooth, a person could lay within its curves as though on an oversized couch; The Chimney Stack, a set of tall tubular buttresses that point to the sky; and The Honeycomb, a hive-like stone formation so intricately woven it seems to have been created by bees.

Another time we will come back here, immersing ourselves in this otherworldly place where fact and fiction are indistinguishable, but for now our journey continues as we leave the coast behind and head due south. Our train trembles on, and soon blue water is replaced by a patchwork of fields, each a different tone of earthy green. After a short journey inland from the northern coast, the railway line passes through small villages, bubbling brooks and winding streams.


Here, slightly off the train tracks, we know there’s a special place called the Dark Hedges. It’s marked on our map as a patch of emerald hues. It’s an avenue of beech trees, which arc across Bregagh Road, their branches intertwining where they meet, creating a tunnel of light and leaves. Planted in 1775, the small copse lines a shadowy passageway over a half a mile in length once crisscrossed by a railway track that has since disappeared, lost to time. The foliage is quite still, except for the occasional creak of branches swaying in the breeze. But on the ground below, a small bird forages, a brambling.


It moves softly, only spotted by the occasional glimpse of its orange breast and white belly. Here, it has found shelter, nestled in nature’s understory. Still our train rolls onward to the south, running alongside the River Bann and past the distant Mountsandel Wood, the earliest known settlement in Ireland. It is said that in the Stone Age, men would sit here and fish for salmon. But with these ancestors now merely memories in the pages of a book, today it is only kingfishers and heron who patrol these banks in search of sustenance. As we watch carefully through the window for flashes of cerulean blue that signals the small birds’ presence, our train carriages are pulled behind us like the concertina bellows of a musician’s accordion.


Now we leave the countryside behind, and enter Belfast. Once inside the city, we peer down the narrow cobblestone streets which lead into the metropolis. Even from the train it feels as though we could easily promenade into a bygone era. Our eyes flow over elaborate Georgian structures lining the thoroughfares, with their impeccable symmetry and embellished cornices along the rooflines. But there are markers of modernity too: brightly painted murals adorn the concrete piece walls, reminding both visitors and residents of the past, while firmly looking to the future.


On the outskirts of Belfast is Campbell College, where author C.S. Lewis once studied. Located on the campus is the very lamppost said to have been the muse behind the famous streetlamp in Narnia. AS we pass this very real literary landmark, it is as though we too are like the young Lucy, ready to discover the unknown wonders that lie ahead. We begin to leave the cityscape in our tracks to continue south. Seen from the carriage soon after are the foothills of the Mourne Mountains, a panorama that inspired the scenery of Narnia.

These twelve rippling summits rise over two thousand feet, and include the highest points in Northern Ireland. Even from a distance, we can imagine standing among them, perhaps within the evocatively named Silent Valley, or from high above where we could spy the glacial waters of Clonlum Cairn. Of these peaks, Lewis wrote: “under a particular light, it made me feel that at any moment a giant might raise his head over the next ridge.” For us, it’s not giants we will encounter next, but rather the edges of the district of poets and songs. Beyond the horizon sits the Ring of Gullion, a circular formation of rolling hills enclosing the heather-clad mountain, Slieve Gullion.


This landscape is said to have inspired creatives for centuries. There is a woodland deep in the forest called the Giants’ Lair, where miniature houses have been hewn into tree barks by artists, creating a living, breathing storybook whose very pages are the landscape itself. Not long after we depart from this enchanted corner, we cross an imperceptible border, leaving Northern Ireland behind. We enter the Republic of Ireland. As the train weaves its way towards the coast, the gentle hum of its relaxing rhythm soothing all of us travelers inside.

Another transition has also occurred: the Atlantic Ocean is no longer spotted from the picture windows, but has been replaced by the Irish Sea. Any sense of the modern has morphed into the mythological as the train passes Drogheda, one of the oldest towns in Ireland. This signals our arrival into the country’s ancient east. Churches, abbeys and antique gates are collected together along its historic streets. And outside the town, remains of an even older settlement have left their mark on the terrain. Here is a place called Brú na Bóinne, which means “A place at the bend in the river”.


It’s the location of a neolithic circular mound dating from a time before Egypt’s pyramids. Amid standing stones, henges, and earthworks, a portal has been left open since its construction in 3200 B.C., perfectly aligned to welcome the sun on the morning of the Winter Solstice every single year. Giving rise to some of Ireland’s great folklore, these ancient places are woven into the heart of this country’s culture. The mythology of the Tuatha Dé Danan, supernatural beings of Irish legend, trickle down the ages to form the basis for modern Irish fairytales.

The train now moves from a place of prehistoric slumber to Dublin, a city distinguished by its endless energy. However, within this vibrant capital city, there are pockets of stillness and peace, redolent with captivating aromas. The scent of hops in the air emanates from the Guinness Factory, where stout is brewed from age-old recipes. A floral fragrance drifts from the historic gardens that surround St. Patrick’s Cathedral. And just around the corner, the scent of leather-bound books floats from behind the doors of Marsh Library.

Waves of people disembark here, searching for inspiration in this intellectual city that gave birth to some of Ireland’s greatest literary icons: James Joyce, Oscar Wilde, W.B. Yeats, Samuel Beckett, among many others. As for us, we remain on the train, waiting for the imminent return to the rural. As the sprawling gray colors of the inner city fade from behind the glass, a bucolic green begins to appear once more. The train sways gently from side to side, shifting with the regularity of a metronome. It glides past the alluring pathways that lead to the Wicklow Mountains, the largest continuous uplands in Ireland.

Taking time to study their topography on our treasured map, we can imagine these verdant slopes, each one flecked with orchids, pockmarked by woodlands and deep locks, watched over by swirling peregrine falcons. We can picture wandering through Glendalough Valley, carved out long ago by a slow-moving glacier, and passing through the gateways to a medieval monastery whose round tower reminds us of the fairytale of Rapunzel, the maiden who had let down her flaxen hair.

The train now passes through the town of Portarlington, which has the power to stir many from their musings. Here, the ivy-coated walls of Lea Castle could have been lifted straight from a fictional town. Standing high on the volcanic hillock of Crowen, a medieval structure captures the attention of all onboard. As we move onwards, we encounter yet more peaks, both real and imagined. The train weaves past the Slieve Bloom Mountains, their lower flanks just about sighted from the train seats. On closer inspection, a hidden heartland is nestled within these pinnacles, the tops of which provide a vista of the four ancient provinces of Ireland.


The picturesque landscape is a network of inclines and bogland, where Crowberry, Purple Moor Grass and bright shades of lichen are dotted over the hills like drops of paint from an artists’ brush. Meadow Pipets and Skylarks chirp and call out from the undergrowth. Blackbirds rise from the scree and the secretive Red Grouse hides, comforted by the vegetation that surrounds him.


Lulled by the languid rhythm of our locomotive and the lush landscape that fills our eyes, we feel our muscles relaxing. The train bears southwest and meets an important crossroads. Limerick Junction has been a key turning point on the Irish Rail Network since it opened over 170 years ago. From here, the possibilities are many. In one direction, the train tracks lead toward the wild Atlantic Coast. Unlike the smooth shorelines of the east, the western seaboard is a network of rugged inlets and untamed coves.


The cliff coast begins where the Shannon River spools out into the ocean, the headland reaches out into the water, seeming to beckon the tides with an outstretched arm. Further to the north is a place called a Burren, where a sweeping limestone plateau can be spied simply by looking at the features on our map. Here, the rocks have splintered, creating a geomorphic jigsaw that’s home to an extraordinary number of plant species. Flowers that are usually distributed over vastly different climates across Europe can all be found growing here.

Within merely a few feet of each other, they burst forth from a landscape that resembles an archeologist’s site of undiscovered treasures. Mediterranean Orchids bloom pink beside delicate shite Mountain Avens, normally found only in the Arctic. Red and orange Birds Foot Trefoil sway in the breeze next to Lady’s Bedstraw, the latter of which has been used for centuries to fill mattresses, making them as soft as down feathers. By the waters’ edge, puffins with colorful striped beaks have come to the nest of the sheer-sided Cliffs of Moher.

Stretching for five miles, this ribbon of shale and sandstone rock is accompanied by the sound of booming waves, hypnotic and primal. The senses are stirred as the water blends the silt and rock into an intoxicating potion. It was this unique landscape that inspired the writings of J.R.R. Tolkien in his iconic trilogy The Lord of The Rings. Hidden in The Burren’s craggy fissures and creeping woods is a cave called Pollnagollum, or “Hole of Gollum”.

Perhaps this is the namesake of one of the most pivotal characters in the celebrated series. Flung further into the sea is the string of islands known as Aran, which inspired the heartbreaking works of the Irish playwright John Millington Synge. This breathtaking trio of isles is steeped in Celtic heritage. While we glide south on our comfortable train, the coast continues northward still, with only the harbor city of Galway heralding the start of the Bay Coast. This region is defined by small villages, sandy coves, and a hearty supply of musicians and storytellers.

Through their rich tapestry of words and songs, they tell tales of the three hundred and sixty five island found here, one for every day of the year. They talk of the surefooted Connemara ponies, who expertly navigate the golden silt. They stitch together stories of annual pilgrimage to the conical mountain of Croagh Patrick, a place that unites over one million international travelers every year, and they seamlessly pull us in with a folktale of Grace O’Malley, the legendary pirate queen.

If we were to travel further north, we’d enter County Sligo, home of Benulbin, a flat-topped rock formation bursting from its surrounding expanse of grassland, a silvery ice-age monolith. Not only is it the site of thousands of fossilized seashells, the sweeping landscape is commonly known as Yeats Country, immortalized in the poetry of William Butler Yeats. Of his childhood home, Yeats wrote “Were I to travel far and wide, I could not find a thing so dear.” Thanks to our map, we continue our dreamlike exploration from the comfort of our soothingly-swaying train, as it meanders its way south.

Looking out at the sky of a late afternoon, we rumble over pastoral landscapes, the gently rocking motion bringing us to the gateway of a region known as the Southern Peninsulas. From this junction we peer down the tracks that stretch off to the west, bound for the cliffs of the Dingle Peninsula. There, the water has sculpted the land into a series of five arm-like shapes, which reach out to greet the visitors to these shores. Birds circle here, petrels, sheerwaters, terns, and auks.

The skies are filled with their calls while the aroma of brine from the ocean offers nature’s own remedy for weary travelers. Were we to stand on the edgelands and look across the water, we could make out a collection of atolls and islands, the most distinctive being Skellig Michael. This pyramidal rock, mentioned in the very earliest of the Irish legends, was home to the Tribe of the Gods back in 1400 B.C. Later, an Augustine Monastery was constructed on its summit, parts of which still remain, accessed by a network of steep winding paths and steps. Its crumbling ruins offer views out to the true west of the country, the Blasket Islands. From here, a voyage across the water would not touch land again until New York City.

But islands and sea journeys are not on our itinerary, for we are safely sequestered inside the train. As the dusk begins to mark its arrival with a muted shade of purple tinging the sky, the end of our journey is in sight. Our loyal locomotive is duty-bound to make its final stop at Cove. This small town is the very last place on the route. Fittingly, it is where over two and a half million Irish souls left their homeland to begin new lives in North America over one hundred years ago. In this place that marked the end of a chapter for many, there is an unassuming charm. The entire waterfront is awash with color.

Tiny handprinted fishing boats bob in the harbor, and rising above them there’s a famous terrace of twenty three houses known as the Deck of Cards, which is built on a steep hill. Each home is a different shade from the next, as though chosen at random from a dreamer’s paint box. The air holds a feeling of promise, promise of pristine islands, fringing coves, limitless waters filled with dolphins, porpoises and whales, all on their own journey, an infinite migration between the seas. Slowly, our train comes to rest. After we disembark, it will begin its journey north once more, crossing the country in sure, steady strides. But this doesn’t mark the end of the road for us. The door to the tangible wonders of this island has only just been opened. Now, the stories, legends and landscapes are no longer found amid pages on dusty shelves, for we have flipped through their chapters in real life on our train ride across Ireland.

