val story = listOf(
listOf("Welcome to Des Moines, the dynamic, capital city of Iowa, where the Midwest's charm, hospitality, and history blend effortlessly with the pulse of a vibrant, bustling cityscape. Nestled at the center of America's heartland, Des Moines offers a unique blend of big city culture, featuring a lively downtown filled with great restaurants, eye-catching architectural gems, and seasonal events that entice visitors from near and far. Yet, it's this city's serene balance of urban sophistication and rural charm that truly sets it apart.", "Our tour will take us throughout Des Moines on a rather unusual mode of transportation - a tractor. In a state where more than 85% of the land is dedicated to farming, where rows upon rows of corn stretch out as far as the eye can see, it seems fitting that we explore this landscape atop one of the farmer's cherished vehicles. Imagine us settled comfortably on our plush seats, feeling the gentle rumble of the tractor beneath us as it rolls past quintessential prairie scenery under the wide Midwestern sky. It’s an adventure that lends a new perspective, a unique way to take in the sights in this heartland city.", "As you prepare for our upcoming tractor tour, your mind might be buzzing with anticipation, and rightfully so. You are about to embark on an unconventional journey, a homage to Iowa's celebrated agrarian heritage and its deep-rooted connection to the land. Whether you're a seasoned traveler looking for a fresh adventure, or a first-time visitor seeking an authentic experience, this unique tour promises a heartwarming and memorable excursion.", "Prepare yourself for the soothing hum of the tractor's engine and the joyous caress of the wind as we bask in the warmth of the sun. Let your spirits soar imagining the colorful vistas, historic landmarks, and charming local tales we're about to uncover in Des Moines. I invite you to open your mind, let loose your imagination, and be ready for this exciting sojourn, where modern city flair and the timeless allure of the countryside go hand in hand. Adventure and discovery lies everywhere here in Des Moines, and our tractor awaits to take us there."),
listOf("Leaving the vibrant city behind, our mighty tractor begins a steady incline up the Capitol Hill. Every rumble of the massive tires fills us with anticipation as we draw steadily closer to the first destination on our tour: The grand Iowa State Capitol. Our eyes are naturally drawn upwards, not simply from the ascending climb, but lifted by the magnetic allure of the monumental five-domed building. As we ascend the hill, the eloquent descriptions of the State Capitol that we read from the brochures truly come to life.", "The expansive structure is truly a sight to behold, glowing in the sunlight that catches on the covered 23 carat-gold central dome. The notable gold, a symbol of both the state's wealth and extravagance, glimmers brilliantly against the deep blue of the sky, and we can almost see our reflections mirroring back at us from the high polish of the precious metal. ", "We marvel at the four additional domes gracing the structure's corners, and the words from the official guide replay in our minds: these cornerstones represent the history of the state, resonating heavily with meaning. Closer still, the Civil War flags on display echo stories of bravery from an era of old, offering silent testimonies to the experiences and sacrifices of those who dotted the landscapes of the past, much like our current procession across the city.", "The experience of driving the trusty tractor up towards the towering beacon of Iowa's legislative and executive branches feels both grounding and inspiring as we mentally prepare ourselves for the tour that lies ahead. Looking at the imposing structure standing proudly against the sky, we couldn’t help but feel a sense of shared history envelop us, connecting us to the bygone eras that linger in the hardened stone and gilded structures. Guided by our tickets and the radiant Iowa sun, we ready ourselves to delve deeper into the narratives harbored within the distinguished edifice, embarking on an enlightening exploration through the majestic Iowa State Capitol."),
listOf("Following our alluring encounter with the luminous Capitol building, our hearty tractor rumbles to life, easing us down from Capitol Hill and towards a change of scene. As we transition, the large imposing structures of political nature give way to the delicious charm of the East Village, often known as the birthplace of Iowa. Humming along on our tractor, we admire this proof of life's simple intimacies and the grandeur of history living in harmonious unity.", "As we delve into this thriving heart of Des Moines, the aroma of fresh-baked goods drifts from cozy open-door bistros, promising a respite and a sweet treat for the curious passerby. The ambient noise of the bustling township, the delightful mix of conversation, and the cheerful laughter from the sidewalks create an eclectic soundtrack to our tractor's rhythmic purr.", "While cruising through the quaint streets, we catch sight of the State Historical Museum. This formidable institution is a trove of tales and artifacts chronicling Iowa's vibrant past. Its imposing structure stands in stark contrast to the gentle whimsy of its surroundings, reminding us of the unique blend of past and present inherent to this locale.", "We meander past rows of local shops carefully set out with an array of wares. Vintage clothing boutiques with charming windows showcasing dapper hats alongside flowing polka-dotted dresses, small shops filled with handmade goods –– each a testament to the city's rich and diverse artistic community. These sights serve to solidify East Village's unique identity, a captivating tapestry of traditional and contemporary elements.", "Needless to say, the sight of our reliable tractor rolling through the village draws cheerful smiles and waves from amused locals enjoying their daily routines. Some pause from their conversationalist gatherings, coffee mugs poised mid-air, others from their shopping, to chuckle and wave as we pass by on our not-so-conventional ride. These jovial interactions generate a wave of warmth within us, adding a vibrantly personal touch to our ongoing exploration of Des Moines."),
listOf("Carrying the warmth of our interactions in East Village with us, we guide our tractor towards a change of pace. Easing into the embrace of greenery, we enter the haven that is the John and Mary Pappajohn Sculpture Park. Named after the philanthropist couple who generously donated 30 spectacular sculptures and therefore bloomed the seeds of this expansive outdoor museum. ", "As we gently navigate our rustic vehicle along the park’s paths, we're greeted by a symphony of extraordinary sculptures by 22 artists, each a testament to human creativity and vision. From abstract shapes to intricate expressive figures, they stand against the backdrop of the sky, their shadows playing upon the undulating lawns. This juxtaposition of the modernity of the artwork and the timelessness of our transportation entices a sense of harmony, a beautiful correlation of old and new.", "Guided by our slow pace, we fully absorb the details etched into each piece. The unhurried speed allows us the luxury to soak in the beauty in a way that wouldn't be possible if we were on foot or in a faster vehicle. In this setting, the bustle of the city seems far away, replaced by an atmosphere of tranquility as we surrender to the art-filled landscape.", "As we slowly explore, a tantalizing aroma leads us to a friendly street vendor, his cart a delightful beacon amidst the vibrant art. Perhaps a classic, perfectly grilled hotdog or freshly popped popcorn, their comforting scents infusing the air, adding another delightful layer to the park's already vibrant sensorium. ", "Enjoying our street fare, we continue our tractor journey, the flavors of the city nourishing our senses as we relish the park's fascinating artistic displays. Each work seen from our interesting mode of transport adds a unique thrill to the experience, creating an unforgettable journey through a landscape where art, nature and the unexpected mesh together in perfect harmony."),
listOf("Departing from the open-air museum of Pappajohn Sculpture Park, we rev our trusty tractor back into motion. It's now time to exchange the al fresco art setting for the magnificent blend of architectural beauty and artistic brilliance that is the Des Moines Art Center.", "As the tractor trundles along at a peaceful pace, we can't help but admire the surrounding canvas of vibrant greenery and beautiful fauna gracing our journey. This visual feast serves as the perfect overture to the artistry we're about to witness - a gentle reminder that art, in its most primal form, began with nature itself.", "Slowly, the Art Center comes into view, its engaging interplay of Art Deco, Art Nouveau, and Brutalist styles painting an impressive silhouette against the Iowa sky. The creative mind behind this striking structure, Architect Eliel Saarinen, seems to have replicated a slice of nature's synchronicity, bringing together varied influences to form a harmonious edifice. ", "Once inside, the grandeur of these walls reveal incredible masterpieces from illustrious artists like Georgia O'Keeffe, Edward Hopper, and Jasper Johns. Their stories unfold on canvases and installations, guiding us through corridors of timeless beauty and thought-provoking expression. We find ourselves drawn into the nuances of each piece, each stroke whispering tales from the artists' world.", "Refreshment beckons in the form of the Art Center's restaurant, Chef’s Palette. This light-filled nook offers us a place to rest our adventured spirits and savor a lunch that exudes as much artistry as the exhibits within the Center. Munching on delicately presented dishes, we immerse ourselves in the gastronomic art form, each flavor painting a vivid image on our palates.", "Garnering renewed energy, the tractor, quietly idling outside, feels like our own time capsule on wheels, ready to roll us into the next chapter of our exploration around Des Moines. The symbiosis of designed art and natural splendor surrounding our journey continues to inspire amazement and respect for the beauty that unfolds here, moments of solace amidst the artistry, narrated by the gentle hum of our tractor's engine."),
listOf("With the engaging impressions of the Des Moines Art Center still fresh in our minds, we journey toward a vibrant slice of local tradition and community spirit - the revered Des Moines Farmers Market. Our trusty tractor, a symbol itself of the links between modern city life and its rustic origins, seems more fitting than ever as it pulls us closer to the bustling market scene.", "Established in 1976, the Farmers Market has a rich history that mirrors the growth of Des Moines itself. It proudly stands as one of the top Farmers Markets in the United States, and as the tractor gently purrs its way down Court Avenue, we find ourselves enthralled by the beaming sense of community and warmth that unfolds around us. ", "The market brims with colorful stalls boasting farm-fresh produce and homemade morsels, each hosting cheerful vendors proudly displaying the fruits of their labor. The air is filled with the complex weave of tantalizing aromas: fresh bread, ripe fruit, and roasting coffee. As we move at a leisurely pace amidst the lively stalls, we surrender to irresistible temptation and halt for fresh corn on the cob and a smorgasbord of homemade pastries, themselves a testament to the rich agriculture of the region.", "The taste of sweet corn and pastries, fresh from local lands and kitchens, imprints another delightful memory onto our sensorial journey around Des Moines. In return, our unusual method of traveling bids to the delight of the market-goers and stall owners alike. They wave, their smiles speaking volumes about the city's warmth and familiarity, as we continue our slow and comfortable ride through the heart of Des Moines' lively marketplace. As the tractor chugs along, carrying forward its heritage and our adventurous spirit, we relish in the stir of cherished urban and rural traditions unified by the spirit of community."),
listOf("Post the vivacity of the Farmers Market, our tractor hums a soft melody as we set off towards a kaleidoscope of colors and aromas — the Greater Des Moines Botanical Garden. As we amble through the city, the tractor's rhythmic chugging seems to resonate with our excited heartbeats, creating a quirky soundtrack for our journey.", "As we arrive at the garden, our gaze is instantly drawn to the stunning glass facade of the Conservatory, designed by the esteemed architect John C. Parkin. Bathed in sunlight, the edifice stands as a shining beacon amidst the lush expanse of flora, itself a seemingly fallen drop of celestial art amidst earthly beauty. ", "Entering the sanctuary beneath the glass, the dividing line between the indoors and the outdoors blurs seamlessly, introducing us to a breathtaking collection of tropical and desert plants from across the globe. From elegant orchids whispering tales from faraway rainforests to hardy cacti embodying the resilience of arid terrains, each plant unfolds a unique narrative, brilliantly blending the botanical wonders of the world under one roof. ", "Slowly navigating our way through garden paths on the tractor, we savor the medley of scents and marvel at the bursts of color encompassing us. The tranquil ride enhances the experience, the tractor's leisurely pace matching the serene ambience, letting us soak in the splendid diversity of the flora. ", "Our slow-moving journey soon leads us to the Trellis Café. Nestled amidst this botanical paradise, the café promises the pleasure of a delightful meal or a calming cup of tea, perfectly complementing our surroundings. We gratefully accept this chance to relax and refuel, feeding not just our bodies but our souls, while still surrounded by the garden's symphony of blooms. Appetites sated and spirits rejuvenated, we prepare to continue our joyous journey, basking in the beauty of this botanical wonderland from the comfort of our unhurried tractor ride."),
listOf("With the delightful hue of the Botanical Garden etched into our minds, and the invigorating smell of lush greenery still clinging to us, we rev up our venerable tractor towards the next intriguing chapter of our Des Moines adventure — Blank Park Zoo. As we chug along the welcoming streets of this friendly city, we feel the excitement build anew, this time coupled with a sense of anticipation for the wild wonders that lie ahead.", "Making its grand debut in 1966, Blank Park Zoo has since flourished into a sprawling sanctuary spanning nearly 50 acres - a veritable haven, where the city meets the wild. As we roll leisurely into the zoo on our trusty tractor, we're welcomed by a colorful collage of habitats, each a home to diverse species from around the globe. There's an indescribable thrill to be enjoyed in seeing these exotic residents thriving within city limits, a testament to conservation efforts and the harmonious blend of urban life with nature.", "Each stop along our slow-paced exploration promises a new discovery, from the majestic lions basking under the sun, to the playful monkeys scaling their ever-towering habitats with effortless grace. Even the animals seem to echo our own delight, acknowledging our odd, yet fascinating vehicle with curious glances, making our interactions all the more personal and memorable.", "The zoo isn't just about captivating species and immersive exhibits, it tickles our appetites too. Embracing a true zoo tradition, we treat ourselves to a quick, delicious snack. Whether it's the sugary delight of a churro or the salty comfort of a soft pretzel, the flavors meld perfectly against the exciting backdrop of animal sights and sounds.", "Every rumble of our tractor, every chirp from the aviary, every rustle from the bush, form part of our extraordinary zoo experience. They depict a diverse canvas, bringing together the heart of Des Moines and the thrill of the wild; a ride that is as captivating as it is memorable. Basking in the multi-faceted harmony around us, we look forward to the continual stories that our tractor-bound journey is yet to unfold in this vibrant city."),
listOf("We wave goodbye to the last of our new friends at the Blank Park Zoo, our faithful tractor stirring to life as we set off to our final destination of the day - the Salisbury House & Gardens. The city unfolds around us in a vibrant panorama as we journey towards this next chapter of our Des Moines exploration. ", "Against the backdrop of Iowa's capital city, stands the majestic Salisbury House, steeped in history and grandeur. A brainchild of cosmetics mogul Carl Weeks, this regal mansion seamlessly blends into the Des Moines cityscape while standing as a testament to its distinct inspiration – the King's House in Salisbury, England. As we steer our tractor towards it, we catch the first glimpse of this Tudor Gothic and Carolean style wonder, a relic of the 1920s boasting its grandeur enjoyed for about a century.", "Navigating through the expansive gardens, our tractor becomes the ultimate talking point, the subject of friendly beckons and cheerful waves, the unconventional yet amusing transport reflecting the shared excitement between us and the manor's inhabitants. Our gradual approach to the main house allows us to appreciate the meticulously preserved architectural details and the surrounding lush gardens, strolling with unhurried grace across history-laden grounds. ", "Once inside, we're greeted by an impressive collection of art, books, and unique objects gathered by Weeks during his globetrotting times. The house tells stories of a life lived large, filled with cherished mementos from places far and wide, luring us into a world of bewitching past and timeless beauty, skillfully woven alongside the modern fabric of Des Moines. ", "Finally, to round up our unforgettable journey through the history-steeped hallways of Salisbury House, we steer our tractor towards the numerous eateries nearby such as the Cheese Shop of Des Moines. Allowing the tractor a well-deserved rest, we treat ourselves to a delectable meal, blending with the locals while relishing in the appetizing offerings and reminiscing the extraordinary sights and experiences aboard our one-of-a-kind ride."),
listOf("As we bid goodbye to the elegant Salisbury House, our trusty tractor chugs down the scenic routes towards an emblem of Iowa's rich past, a beacon of collective memory - the State Historical Museum. The echo of the tractor’s engine melds with the whispers of yesteryears, setting the tempo for our passage through time.", "With every approaching moment closer to the museum on our unconventional transport, we imagine the myriad stories residing within the museum's walls. It promises a captivating expedition from Iowa's deep-rooted Native American origins to the effervescent present, featuring more than 80,000 artifacts - tangible reminders of the past that have shaped the present and will invariably guide the future.", "Lighting down from our tractor, we walk into the museum, moving from the pleasant Iowan daylight into halls imbued with a quiet reverence for history. Encased within these walls, we discover an array of significant relics from an intriguing stagecoach to the prototype of the significant 'Iowa Computer'. Each artifact forms a piece of the grand jigsaw that recounts the evolution of this dynamic region.", "After the profound exploration, we mosey over to the inviting Café Barattas within the premise. Famed for sumptuous Italian offerings, the café invites us to unwind over a plateful of delight after our history-imbued museum tour. As we relish our meals, we find ourselves reflecting on the journey we undertook - the path that led us from the simple act of climbing down from a tractor through an absorbing narrative of time.", "Lingering over the Italian flavors, we sit back and marvel at the immersive ride through time we've just experienced. All the while, our faithful tractor awaits, ready to enthrall us at the beck and call of the next Des Moines adventure that unfurls in front of us."),
listOf("As we leave behind the historical spectrum of the State Museum, our faithful tractor gears up for one final stop on our unconventional journey - the Living History Farms. An expansive 500-acre open-air museum, it promises a vibrant leap back in time, capturing the transformative journey of the Midwest across three centuries.", "Arriving at Living History Farms on our tractor feels like returning to our roots, and indeed, this simple machine finds itself right at home amid the rustic charm of the open-air museum. Our ride along the farm trails turns into a harmonious ballet with the vast farmlands, blending effortlessly into a scenic tableau that breathes nostalgia.", "This unique setting is more than a mere display of vintage structures and artifacts - it's a living, breathing reenactment of history. We find ourselves stepping into a vivid 1875 town, complete with a historically accurate hotel. The scent of old-fashioned recipes wafts enticingly from its windows, reigniting our appetites. Sitting down to this authentic experience, we're treated to a tangible taste of history, our meals served with generous sides of stories from yesteryears.", "Post our lunch break, we continue our self-guided tractor tour around the property. We pass old farmhouses that whisper tales from the Native American era, explore barns that stood the test of time amid the agricultural revolution, and amble through fields that echo the centuries-old evolution from indigenous territories into a proud farming region. ", "From the seat of our tractor, we witness a unique reading of history. The tides of time are perfectly frozen in the farmlands of Living History Farms, our senses delighting in the sights, echoes, and scents of years gone by. As we move at a comfortable pace, we feel a profound connection, not just with history, but also with the land which makes Iowa the charming state it is today. Our tractor isn't merely a mode of transport anymore, but a bridge connecting the nostalgic past with the delightful present, each rumble, a testament to the enduring spirit of Des Moines and its fascinating tales."),
listOf("As the sun started to set over the wide Iowa horizon, bathing the Living History Farms in a soft, golden light, we regained our seats on the humble tractor. Every creak and rustle of our simple vehicle reflected a profound connection we'd built with it, and through it, with the beating heart of Des Moines. Although our tractor’s engine hummed its familiar note as we traced our path back to where our journey had begun, it seemed to echo the deeper connection we had established with Des Moines – a link with the throbbing pulse of the city's culture, history, and people, so remarkably embodied in every site we had visited.", "From the grandeur of the Iowa State Capitol to the lively East Village, from the enchanting Pappajohn Sculpture Park to the fascinating Art Center, our journey in the trusted tractor had crafted magical stories at every turn. We tasted the city's essence in the bustling Farmers' Market, felt its heartbeat wandering through the Botanical Gardens, lived its diverse history exploring the State Museum, and savored the romance of its evolution in the Living History Farms.", "Yet, the journey was more than just visiting places; it was embracing the spirit of the city. Each wave from a passerby at our tractor, each smile shared with the locals, every bite of the unique flavors, and every piece of history and art that captured our hearts built the rich, layered narrative of Des Moines in our minds. The tractor – a simple farming vehicle — had ferried us through a journey that was nothing short of an enlightening exploration, revealing the city’s fabric one unique thread at a time.", "As the engine of our trusty tractor eventually grew silent, we looked upon the twinkling lights of Des Moines nightfall. A sense of peace washed over us, our hearts brimming with the warmth and charm of the city we'd explored. Though our sightseeing voyage had reached its end, the essence of Des Moines we’d gathered during our excursion would remain with us, a gentle reminder of our beautiful journey. On this day, we didn't merely tour a city; we wove ourselves into its story, our hearts beating in time with the pulse of Des Moines, carried on the wheels of a humble tractor, under the vast, inspiring Iowa sky.")
)